content/blog/remix-hide-on-load.mdx, before:

---
title: Hide elements unless JS is disabled with React SSR
description: Progressive enhancement requires showing fallback elements to users without javascript. Reveal the fallbacks with a CSS animation to avoid a flash of unstyled content. Use the useHydrated hook from remix-utils to detect when javascript has loaded.
tags: Remix
timestamp: "2023-05-17"
published: true
---

Progressive enhancement in a world with server-side rendering is not for the faint of heart.

If you want to show a fancy component for users with javascript, but a simpler browser-native version for users without javascript, you run into issues immediately.

For example, if you want your users to get a nice file drop zone that shows image thumbnails and lets them drag and drop files, the only way JS-free users will still be able to use the app is if you show them a native file input.

Making sure the right users see the right input is not easy.

Users without javascript will get whatever version of the page is rendered on the server, so the server MUST render a native file input to screen.

Even if you tell React to hide it immediately, there will still be that flash of a native input before React takes over.

The opposite approach, where you keep the native input hidden with plans to reveal it later, is also not great. How do you reveal it without javascript?

Given those constraints, I choose to use a CSS animation to make the native input start invisible, but reveal itself after a second.

That's long enough for javascript to load and cancel the animation for most users, who will never see the native input.

For users without javascript, the page will load with nothing and then the input will appear out of nowhere a second later. That's a janky user experience, but look at the available options.

- File uploads don't work at all without javascript
- Every user sees at least a flash of a native input
- Users without javascript see a janky input appear out of nowhere and then can still use the app

I think the last option is the best of the bunch.

## Let's code it out

The first step is to create a CSS animation that will make the input appear after a second.

I'm a tailwind user<SideNote> which means I'm afraid of CSS </SideNote>, so I added it in my tailwind config instead.

```tsx
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      animation: {
        appear: "appear 1s",
      },
      keyframes: {
        appear: {
          "0%, 99%": {
            height: "0",
            width: "0",
            opacity: "0",
          },
          "100%": {
            height: "auto",
            width: "auto",
            opacity: "1",
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Then we can use the `useHydrated` hook from remix-utils as a heuristic for whether or not javascript has loaded.

If it hasn't loaded, we'll use the animation to make the input appear eventually.

If it has loaded, we remove the animation class and give it something that will visually hide it permanently, like `sr-only`.

```tsx
import { useHydrated } from "remix-utils"

export function NoScript() {
  const isHydrated = useHydrated()

  return (
    <div
      className={isHydrated ? "sr-only" : "animate-appear"}
    >
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now we can use this component to wrap our native input.

```tsx
import { NoScript } from "./NoScript"

export function Example() {
  return (
    <div>
      <NoScript>
        <input type="file" />
      </NoScript>
      <div>... rest of the component</div>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Commit message:

content: publish remix-fade-clientonly

content/blog/remix-hide-on-load.mdx, after:

---
title: Hide elements unless JS is disabled with React SSR
description: Progressive enhancement requires showing fallback elements to users without javascript. Reveal the fallbacks with a CSS animation to avoid a flash of unstyled content. Use the useHydrated hook from remix-utils to detect when javascript has loaded.
tags: Remix
timestamp: "2023-05-17"
published: true
---

Progressive enhancement in a world with server-side rendering is not for the faint of heart.

If you want to show a fancy component for users with javascript, but a simpler browser-native version for users without javascript, you run into issues immediately.

For example, if you want your users to get a nice file drop zone that shows image thumbnails and lets them drag and drop files, the only way JS-free users will still be able to use the app is if you show them a native file input.

Making sure the right users see the right input is not easy.

Users without javascript will get whatever version of the page is rendered on the server, so the server MUST render a native file input to screen.

Even if you tell React to hide it immediately, there will still be that flash of a native input before React takes over.

The opposite approach, where you keep the native input hidden with plans to reveal it later, is also not great. How do you reveal it without javascript?

Given those constraints, I choose to use a CSS animation to make the native input start invisible, but reveal itself after a second.

That's long enough for javascript to load and cancel the animation for most users, who will never see the native input.

For users without javascript, the page will load with nothing and then the input will appear out of nowhere a second later. That's a janky user experience, but look at the available options.

- File uploads don't work at all without javascript
- Every user sees at least a flash of a native input
- Users without javascript see a janky input appear out of nowhere and then can still use the app

I think the last option is the best of the bunch.

## Let's code it out

The first step is to create a CSS animation that will make the input appear after a second.

I'm a tailwind user<SideNote> which means I'm afraid of CSS </SideNote>, so I added it in my tailwind config instead.

```tsx
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      animation: {
        appear: "appear 1s",
      },
      keyframes: {
        appear: {
          "0%, 99%": {
            height: "0",
            width: "0",
            opacity: "0",
          },
          "100%": {
            height: "auto",
            width: "auto",
            opacity: "1",
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Then we can use the `useHydrated` hook from remix-utils as a heuristic for whether or not javascript has loaded.

If it hasn't loaded, we'll use the animation to make the input appear eventually.<SideNote> For a nicer user experience, you could make the element [fade in slowly on the client](/content/remix-fade-clientonly) </SideNote>

If it has loaded, we remove the animation class and give it something that will visually hide it permanently, like `sr-only`.

```tsx
import { useHydrated } from "remix-utils"

export function NoScript() {
  const isHydrated = useHydrated()

  return (
    <div
      className={isHydrated ? "sr-only" : "animate-appear"}
    >
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now we can use this component to wrap our native input.

```tsx
import { NoScript } from "./NoScript"

export function Example() {
  return (
    <div>
      <NoScript>
        <input type="file" />
      </NoScript>
      <div>... rest of the component</div>
    </div>
  )
}
```
